Hey everybody, welcome to the Data Science Hangout. I'm Rachel and I lead Customer Marketing
at Posit. Posit is the open source data science company building tools for the individual
team and enterprise. I just started adding that because I noticed some people actually
found out about the Hangout without knowing about Posit yet. But thank you so much for
hanging out with us today. The Hangout is our open space to hear what's going on in
the world of data across different industries and to connect with others facing similar
things as you. We get together here every Thursday at the same time, same place. So
if you're watching this as a recording in the future and you want to join us live, there'll
be details to add it to your calendar below. I have a really fun announcement today. You
may have seen on my LinkedIn already, but I'm thrilled to make it official and have
Libby here and joining me as my partner at the Hangouts. And so Libby and I first met
at a Data Science Hangout, I think back in July 2021. So like one of the very first ones
and I can't believe it has been that long. And I know many of you already know Libby
very well from the Hangouts and beyond. But Libby, do you want to say hi and introduce
yourself too? I would love to. I'm Libby. And yes, Rachel hasn't been able to get rid
of me for three years. So she just said like, well, just invite her in. I am a data science
freelancer right now. I really, really enjoy teaching and mentoring. And that is what I
get to do. And I'm also starting as a Posit Academy mentor. My first cohorts will be next
month. So I really, really love this community and really hope that we can do cool new fun
stuff. Happy to be here. Me personally, I'm a big maker and a big reader. I made this
shirt. I actually dyed this fabric myself and sewed this shirt. So you'll see me wearing
lots of me made clothing. But yeah. So excited to have you here, Libby. I know I mentioned
before you always felt like a co-host, but making official makes me really, really excited.
I know other people love connecting with each other in the chat. So I always like to add
this reminder here. If you do want to connect with others, I encourage you to say hi in
the chat and introduce yourself, maybe your role or where you're based, something you
do for fun, or if you want to share your LinkedIn so you can find each other after. But to continue
just my very quick intro here, we're all dedicated to keeping this the friendly and welcoming
space that you all have made it over the years. And we love to hear from you no matter your
years of experience, titles, industry or languages that you work in. It's 100% okay if you just
want to listen in today. Although we love getting to hear from you live. So you could
raise your hand on Zoom to ask questions and I'll call on you to jump in. You can put questions
in the Zoom chat and just put a little asterisk next to it if it's something you want me to
read instead. Otherwise I'll call on you to jump in. And then third, we do have a Slido
link where you can ask questions anonymously too. So with all that, thank you for spending
time with us today. I'm so excited to be joined by my co-host Jason Foster, Director
at Marathon Asset Management. And Jason, do you want to kick us off with introducing yourself
and sharing a little bit about your role? Yeah, no, thanks for having me today. I've
been an avid listener for most of the data science Hangouts this year. I think really
what piqued my interest was the Wes McKinney interview, I think back in March of this year,
given his Python background. And that's primarily what I use professionally. So definitely motivated
me to join these. I've learned a lot from everyone you've hosted so far. So thanks for
putting this on. And hopefully other people in finance want to join going forward and
want to share their journeys and how they're approaching quantitative finance, data science,
Python, et cetera, and R too. Always interested in what other people are doing as well. So
anyway, thanks again. And thanks everyone for being here today. I know maybe some of
you are still recovering from the PositConf hangover. So appreciate everyone taking some
time out of their day today to join us. But a quick, quick intro about myself. I'll go
back actually to the very beginning. I actually did not live, I was not born in the US, I
was born overseas, lived overseas for until I was about 10 years old, and then came to
the US there. And what's interesting after that is I actually went to high school in
Alaska, that's where I graduated from. And I wanted to be close to home. And I liked
math. And I wanted to do something in the business world. And the closest big city to
Alaska is Seattle. And fortunately, I didn't go to PositConf, but I wish I did. But that's
where I did my undergrad in math and finance there. And actually, the moment that I hit
the ground in Seattle, my family moved to the Middle East, back overseas. So it turned
from a short flight to a pretty long flight again to go visit them, visit home. I can
talk about that too later. So I did math and finance in undergrad. And then I was fortunate
enough to have a few different internships. And one of them was at an asset manager in
Seattle on the quantitative research team. And this was back in 2009. And I was lucky
enough to sit next to a local university professor in statistics. He was more like a consultant
and really gave our team the theoretical academic boost that we needed. And I was able to learn
a lot from him, including R and R package development. We had an internal R package
library that we could use. So I was learning a lot about finance and R and programming
stats from the team. And I really was motivated to learn more. And after that, I did so. And
I went to grad school. And I got a master's in financial engineering. And I think one
interesting thing is this was a while ago. And it's so similar to what data science would
be now maybe in finance and math if you just applied it in that space to finance. But back
then, it was called financial engineering, financial math, computational finance. Any
one of those really is all the same. There are some differences, but for the most part,
it's similar. And so I did grad school in New York. And I was fortunate enough to get
an offer from the same firm in New York to join the risk and quantitative analysis team
there, too, as a risk manager primarily. And I can talk about that more later. But
covering different types of portfolios and investments and working with different types
of portfolio managers, multi-asset, fixed income, et cetera, I can talk about that later,
too, and some examples of how I used R and Python. And then in 2016, 2017, I presented
a couple of times at R and Finance on an R package that I've developed. And it's available
on CRAN. It's called Roll. And it's just doing basic rolling statistics, but super fast.
And there's a lot of ways that I've made it fast over the years. And I can talk about that,
too, and some of the people that I've interacted with over the years and some of the feedback I've
gotten and the lessons learned. It's interesting to have a package available on CRAN for everyone
to use. And I've done a few presentations on it over the years. And then our firm made a pretty
strategic shift to Python. And so we switched professionally a lot of my work over to Python,
and so did everyone else at the firm. And one of the more interesting projects that I led towards
the end of my previous employer was on a term I've heard a few times here, too, is on citizen
developers. And that's when you have a bunch of people that aren't technically employed to do
professional software engineering, creating packages or libraries for their day-to-day job
just to make their lives a lot easier. And that's challenging in itself. Motivate people whose job
it is to do something they're not supposed to be doing, but it helps them. So you have to find some
time to convince people to spend time on that for them and for others. So it's an interesting
dynamic. And that was all in Python. And then more recently, I wanted to
kind of get my hands a lot more dirty again and have some more impact on some of my font skills
and apply them and do more programming and quantitative work. So I've joined about a year
ago a smaller asset manager, still not small at all, but smaller. And I've been able to use what
I've learned in terms of scaling processes from a risk management perspective, quantitative
framework to other types of portfolios and portfolio risks specifically there now, too.
So I've tried to cover a lot of ground. I've hopefully thrown out a bunch of different
angles we could go. We can leave it there and open up for questions. If there's anything else
you want to add or I can add, Rachel, I'm happy to as well. Yeah, absolutely. The thing I forgot
to ask you is what do you also like to do outside of work for fun? Right. So actually every day
I have two boys now and the only free time I have is super early in the morning. So I go running.
I have to go running every day. It just doesn't feel the same if I don't go running. So that's
something I do every day. And what's interesting about that is I think part of me also doesn't
like running very much because I like to run really fast. I think it's part of me just wants
to get over with. So I've never run, never raced more than a 10K, but still pretty good times
for everything up until that point, too. So that's something I like to kind of keeps me sane,
keeps me going every day. Nice. I learned there's a pretty big running community here at Posit.
The conference, the people were getting up early to go for runs. Yeah, it's way more
healthy than people expect. Yeah. I know a lot of us might not be from a finance background
and you can't give us any investment advice here, but I was just wondering, when you talk
about risk management, could you just share a little bit with us on what that means?
Sure. So the way to think about it is maybe from the other side of the table, which is the
portfolio manager side. And you think about the investments that they want to make and the style
that they have and how are they going to put risk on the table or money in terms of investments to
stocks or to bonds? And then how do you kind of quantify the various outcomes of those exposures,
those risks, those bets that they're taking in the same way that they would take it? And you want
to be able to explain to them the risks that they're taking in the same way that they take
risk. Two different teams might have different approaches and I'm not going to want to use the
same language or presentation of how they're taking risks. I'm going to want to tailor it
specifically there too. So just to maybe really apply a little example is, let's say you really
like a stock, pick your favorite technology company that's based in the U.S. And just by saying those
few terms, you can start thinking about different exposures that a company like that might have,
you know, just general market exposure, just general equity market exposure. And then they're
going to also have some U.S. equity market exposure. They're going to have some technology
exposure. So those are three pretty high level risks already. And you have to figure out how
much exposure or weight do they have to each of those. And then you can start thinking about,
OK, what happens in this scenario? If that happens, you know, technology, you know,
continues or doesn't in its current trend. And then you can start having those conversations
with the portfolio manager and ask questions along the lines of, does, you know, does this
surprise you? Is this what you'd expect? And it's more of a two way dialogue. And it can get kind of
fun in a way, because especially when you have events coming up like elections, you can start
thinking about who's going to, you know, what kind of impact each candidate have in terms of their
policies and start thinking about, OK, what are they going to do here or there? And then what's
my exposure to that factor? And then I can start thinking about, you know, how is that going to
impact what I'm actually holding and have very similar conversations again with the portfolio
manager. So thinking about the exposures to difference, you know, factor bets is what I've
essentially been describing in a way. But at the end of the day, there's also a bunch of non-factor,
more idiosyncratic SOX specific or asset class specific risks that are unique to that company
as well. But, you know, for the most part, what I've been describing is more on that factor based
side. And you can start to think about those in the larger context of the markets and explaining
those and thinking about that as a two way street with the portfolio manager.
Awesome. Thank you.
Libby, do you want to ask the next one?
Maybe I do like real time onboarding and figuring out things together.
We're going to have to figure out our dynamic eventually.
Sure. So we have a question from Bill with asterisks, so I will ask it. And it is,
what were the pluses and minuses, sort of a comparison of moving from R to Python? Like,
were you dragged into this transition or were you OK with it and onboard? How did it go?
Sure. No, that's a great question. And, you know, that's an interesting question because
I professionally do a lot mostly in Python programming, but I still have this R package
that I'm maintaining. So, you know, kind of personally on the side, nights and weekends,
chipping away at that package as well. And I think to be honest, a lot of what I'm doing is
getting questions from the portfolio management team or other teams.
And we ideally want to be able to use the systems that we have in place
to answer their question. And to be honest, they just have a question they want to answer. They
don't necessarily need to know how you're coming up or which tools you're using to answer that
question. It's more fast paced in that sense. So really, whatever it is that gets the job done
the fastest is really all that matters. But if the system can't handle it, you're on your own.
And that's really where the quantitative skills come into play. And R and Python, in my opinion,
are so similar. And I've heard it mentioned a few times that maybe there's the whole tension
because they are so similar and people are comparing them because of that. If they were
so different or special from each other, then they wouldn't have those conversations. It'd be obvious
which way to go, but it's maybe not. And that's why. So in my mind, I think they're so similar,
there's really not much differentiation. And I've been a pretty big adopter myself of doing
a lot of stats in R or in Python, and then doing a lot of the graphing in R with ggplot as well.
So I've been a pretty big adopter of the Quarto framework more recently. And I've been using
RStudio for a very long time, actually. I remember hearing about it way back in 2011
when it was presented at R and Finance. So it's been good to see it evolve over the years to
really support the two languages, R and Python, especially. And then Ozzatron this year has been
nice to see as well and excited for what comes there as well. But regardless, if your whole
firm switches over to Python, for me personally, it was not hard. Like I said, I think R and Python
are so easy in terms of transitioning and answering very similar questions with both.
And you have to keep in mind, though, one thing is who is going to support the system in place
at your firm. So if all of the technology teams know Python and they don't know R,
and you want to ask them a R question, it's going to be very challenging to get much
out of them or support or traction on your problem that you're facing. And really,
if you're trying to get your job done, you want to just do what is maybe easier and more seamless
to do. And that's one of the selling points of switching to something that's well supported
within your firm, whether it's R or in Python as well. So you go to both, but you also want to be
able to have impact on your job and you want to get the job done. And if your whole technology
team knows Python, then it's a lot easier to speak the same language and to really have that support
from them as well. And it's not so much of an uphill battle to get what you might need out of
them or to do your job within the day. So hopefully that answers your question. It's definitely a good
one. And I think for me personally, it goes back to moving around a lot as a kid and just being
in different environments. You just kind of have to adapt and try to use what's in your environment
to your benefit as much as possible.
Thank you. Mauro, I see you asked a question in the chat. Do you want to jump in here next?
Yeah, sure. Jason, thanks a lot. I wonder, you seem to be very well versed in code-based tools
and very happy to adopt them. But I wonder if the same was true for your team or if you had
to kind of help them turn from something that is not code-based to tools that are code-based.
Yeah, that's a great question. One interesting observation was I saw a lot of people jump from
VBA directly into Python, less so from R into Python, which was interesting. And some people
switching from MATLAB into Python and a bunch of folks just skipping the whole R element entirely,
which was interesting to me. And in terms of training, one thing that I did initially was
set up some exercises for people. So, putting together, you want to use formats that are
similar to what people would use internally. So, creating a PowerPoint deck that is going
through exercises that you would normally need to do for your day job and asking questions along
the way. So, for example, in the risk world, you can think of, in terms of risk, a lot of people
would think about volatility and standard deviations. So, if you wanted to calculate a
standard deviation of a return series, how would you do that in Python and going through the simple
example there? And then your firm might have some custom tweaks to how they calculate that. So,
how would you do that and how would you maybe tap into these APIs that you would use internally?
You think of it like asking a question and you have some questions and you take out the
answers a little bit and you make them do and solve some of the problems themselves by using
Python or whatever language and to really show them what they need to do to get their day job
and to make it have a bigger impact on what they need to do. So, it kind of motivates people when
you show them and guide them through exercises in whatever language that you're doing. And that
motivates them to learn the language and then they can also see how it benefits them
specifically. So, putting together exercises was a big, big one. And then also just hosting internal
education sessions. Those can be a little more challenging because
some people just learn differently and they might have different paces,
which is totally fine. And when you give people exercises to go do on their own time, they might
learn a little bit however they need to learn and they come ask you questions whenever they need to.
So, there's pros and cons to both approaches, but I have done both. And I would say, really,
at the end of the day, just showing people how to do their work in a language and then
that really motivates people to learn it even more on their own time.
I love that.
May I ask a follow-up question there?
Sure.
Yeah, okay, thanks. Yeah, so, yeah, I wanted to ask if your role was defined
so that you would be the person, say, distributing to the team educational content or
helping them transition, or if it was something that kind of grew organically. And I ask these
because I had the luck to join the organization that I am working today with kind of that
as being part of my role. But I also see a lot of people that they do know that there are better
ways, but because their role is not officially the admin or the educator or whatever you want
to call it, it's kind of a role that might need to kind of grow organically. So, if you have any
experience there, it would be lovely to see how you, yeah, what your advice.
Great, great question. So, no, that was not technically a part of my role. I like to think
about and say you have your nine to five, and then this is more your five to nine type job.
And some of the advice I've been given over the years, something I always keep in the back of my
mind is people don't always know what you can do until you show them. And they also don't know
what they want until you show them. So, this would be an example of that. So, yeah, I think
so. We had an internal Python package that was created by a group of risk managers,
and no one asked them to do that. They just did it. And then they released it internally,
and it caught on like fire, and everyone wanted to use it. Everyone wanted to adopt it. It really
started to impact everyone's roles. And then that's when senior management will see the impact
of that kind of work. And then you can start making the case that you should spend more time
professionally working on or spending some of your day job working on that as well. But it takes
a bit of showing for that to happen. I'm sure there are some roles out there where that's
more explicit up front, but, you know, that's something that sometimes you just need to
find extra time in your day. It's painful sometimes, and it's even harder now for me
with kids. But I find that people are pretty receptive if you show them something that benefits
them. And after that, it's kind of on you to use that to your advantage to make it more formal of
your role there too. So, no, it's not something that I've ever formally asked to do or other
people have asked to do as well, but they see the impact eventually, and they get very excited
as well. So, hopefully that helps. It's probably not the best answer, but again, people just don't
know what you can do sometimes until you show them, and then they see the benefit too.
Thank you. Thank you for the awesome follow-up question.
Nikita, I saw you asked a question in the chat. Would you like to unmute and ask that?
And if not, we can always ask it for you.
Okay, I'm not hearing or seeing. Oh, wait, I see Nikita's camera. Hello, everyone. I'm wearing a
t-shirt. How do you get solutions with non-tech people? This is kind of, I found an issue,
especially in finance. Everyone knows how to use Excel, and everyone knows how to use Excel.
And we need to connect our Python with Excel. However, sharing something reproducible becomes
extremely complicated. Yeah, no, that's another great question. And, you know, just maybe to be
very explicit about that. A very long time ago, and I think you still do it today, but you could
hook R into Excel directly. And that was something that I did a long, long time ago.
But it was so cumbersome and painful and really hard to share that as well. And I think I've heard
more recently that Python is available in Excel now as well. Maybe even from the Wes McKinney
interview or somewhere else, I heard him say that he helped with some of that as well. So maybe
that's something that'll make it easier over time. That being said, to answer your question
a little more generally, I've never worked with, I mean, so in finance, there are different types
of investors. There's quantitative portfolio managers, there's fundamental qualitative
portfolio managers. I myself have always worked more with the more qualitative
portfolio managers myself. So I've never had the luxury, I guess, of speaking the same language
as a quantitative portfolio manager would probably speak. And I learned that quite early on in my
career to take the audience into account. So, you know, imagine coming from, I was in
undergrad, undergrad school for too long, almost seven years actually. So imagine coming from a
quantitative background with that many years of school into a real world setting and working on
interesting quantitative projects only to present them and to find out that they have no impact.
And you're communicating to an audience that doesn't either understand or find what you do
useful. They might find it really interesting, but you've realized that you've spent a lot of
your time working on something that's not going to have any impact. And typically on the risk
management side, they can be more of an independent team. So, you know, the portfolio
managers are taking the risk and then the risk manager kind of overviewing them as an independent
body or team within the firm. And they typically have different reporting lines just to keep that
separation, you know, pretty different as well and unbiased. So you can imagine that, you know,
it's pretty disappointing. I can think of a project early on, I was doing some portfolio
optimization, you know, with those black leader men flavor to it, which is kind of like Bayesian
type style, and present that to a bunch of portfolio managers where they don't optimize
their portfolios in that way. And they don't think about quantitative techniques in that way.
And I was pretty disheartened to find out really quickly where it was not going.
And really, from that moment on, I had to take a different approach in order to have impact.
And really, once you figure out how to have that rhythm and speak the same language with the
different teams, it's even more rewarding. And one way, though, I still, you know, maybe a secret,
in a secretive way is behind the scenes, I'm still doing quantitative work. But when I'm presenting
and talking to portfolio managers, I'm going to leave out a lot of those details, and to only
mostly focus on the business impact and business value, and tailor in a way that speaks the same
language as them, as much as possible. So for example, I'll give a quick example, one of my
more interesting analyses is it sounds really simple, but it's similar to optimization,
but it's random portfolio weights. So you can just generate a bunch of random numbers and
allocate different, you know, investments to those weights. And to see a bunch of different
outcomes for different portfolios, you can kind of use that, you know, scatterplot of
outcomes and compare how you're doing versus a bunch of random portfolios, kind of like monkeys
throwing darts at a dartboard, or typing on a typewriter to see if they can write out Shakespeare
in a way. And are you better, better than them, or not? So you just, are you really far off base
from a bunch of random numbers? Or are you actually pretty competitive? But when I present something
like that, I'm not going to talk about how I actually generated those numbers. And that can
be a pretty technical way as well. Because, you know, tech, technically, what you're trying to do
there is not, you might think it's really easy to do that, because you might just want to
generate random uniform numbers. But actually, if you look at the scatterplot of those results,
you'll see that they have different clusters. So if you visualize that, there are different
clusters as well. So you have to do something technically much more mathy than that. So it's
really tempting to just generate uniform random numbers, but really you have to generate more
exponential type distribution in terms of numbers to normalize. Then you can think about what happens
if I move forward through time, and how do you have turnover, and things like that. So you can
get pretty interesting quantitatively. But I'm never going to want to talk about that level of
detail with a portfolio manager. I'm going to focus on, okay, I'm just going to generate some
numbers, show you the results, and we're going to start having some conversations. And then,
you know, if they do have questions, I can answer them. But it's really about bridging the gap
between how they take the risk. You're kind of in the middle, and then you have another side,
either the models you're using, or the models in the system, and the quants that are developing
them. So you have to speak both languages is maybe one way to think about it, understanding the
audience. Thank you. Reading through the chat right now, it feels like there's some sort of
follow-up that we all would like to see on like an Excel and R and Python collaboration, or just
helpful packages. So Libby, maybe that's something we could look at after as we go through the chat.
Yeah, we need some resources. You guys put so much in there. But Jason, I know you just
touched on this, on working with the portfolio managers. But when you and I were chatting a bit
before, we talked about like, how do you actually convince the portfolio managers to listen to you?
And I thought it might be good to reiterate that, just as we all think about communicating with
stakeholders. Sure. That's definitely a big one. I think it goes back to maybe listening to
them first, and not come out of the gates too fast in terms of what you're thinking and
viewing from your independence risk perspective. I think it's really important to understand
their style, their views, and then to also think about what the client wants and what the
in or in stakeholder wants for whatever product you might be working on. So you kind of want to
have a big picture of the different areas of really who's making the decisions from the
portfolio side, then who's being impacted with the results on the end user side as well.
And once you have that, and you kind of really understood how everything works together,
you want to be able to speak the same language. It goes back to a similar question
that just got asked. You want to be able to speak the same language. And once you're able to do
that, I think they'll start listening more to you. And one unfortunate thing is it just takes time.
So the portfolio manager and other people, they need to trust you. And you might be the smartest,
most brilliant, quantitative person in the world. But if no one's listening to you,
even though you're right, that's not a good outcome. And you want to be able for people to
listen to you. And I think with that, time is the biggest factor. And then when you do have
some time under your belt, you're able to communicate and to talk in the same way and
have similar impacts to what a portfolio manager might be thinking there as well.
So I think it's a bit of speaking the same language over time and understanding
essentially what and also what the end user client is expecting as well. And if you can frame
questions and points in that way and make it, frame it in a way where it's really about the
client and really about the end user, I think you could maybe speed up a little bit more and
to really have that conversation earlier on as well. I think everyone wants to do the right thing
at the end of the day. And if you can frame it in that way, then you might get some earlier
adoption as well too there. Thank you. And we will be sure to try to harvest some of these that we're
seeing in the chat and put them somewhere later. Alan, you had a great question. Would you like
to ask that one? Yeah, sure. Jason, I got really curious. And I think you spoke to this a little
bit in speaking to DQ's question about quantitative versus qualitative. And it got me thinking about
all of the inputs that must go into the work that you do. And I'm really curious about the backend
data ecosystem of stuff. There's got to be lots and lots of quantitative stuff. And then there
must be a lot of things that are speculative, like what happens if, different kinds of scenarios and
stuff like that. I'm really curious how all that kind of information gets generated and managed.
And if that causes problems for reproducibility or cross-validation or things like that.
What happens with that kind of information? And how do you turn that into, how does that
come into the story that you tell? There's a whole bunch there. Take that in any way that
is an interesting path. How do you get the right data for things that seem really hard
to quantify? Maybe that's the fundamental thing. Yeah, no, that's a great question.
I've worked on a number of projects over the years that required crunching a lot of data.
And that's also one of the reasons why I felt the need to create the role package in R. It's
available on CRAN for everyone on this call to go download afterwards. Because at the end of the day,
I wanted to calculate basic statistics, like z-scores. And I wanted to have some sort of
weighting scheme attached to it. And I wanted, and I had missing data. And if you wanted to just
roll apply or roll some other function in R, you're rolling some function that you're kind of
tied to how that function behaves. It might accept weights, it might accept missing values, maybe not
both, or maybe one or the other. So you're kind of at the mercy of that function. And I wanted
something that could support those features. And I wanted to be able to do that fast because I didn't
really know the right window size or the weighting scheme. So I needed to be able to iterate quickly
and create some sort of shiny app is what I did there too. And you can toggle between those
parameters very quickly to get a sense of the different z-scores of the data yourself there too.
So that would be something that really motivated me to create that package. But to really answer
your question with a more tangible example, there are a bunch of concepts in finance that
aren't really taught in textbooks. And one big project that I worked on, and it's
public information, it's been published externally before, is some work on crowded trades. And that's
something that is a very easy concept to explain, but it's a really difficult concept to quantify.
So everyone probably can figure out what that means just by the word crowded trades, but it's
when a lot of people are in the same trade or investment and you want to know that. And especially
from a risk perspective, that's very important because you don't want to be the last person
standing when everyone has left the room. And you can have a pretty significant drawdown and lose
a lot of money. So we want to be able to make sure that we can at least track that
quantitatively, have some conversations about that. But how do you quantify something
like that that's not a textbook? And that's really where it goes to talking to people
about their experience in those types of situations. And especially if you're
starting out in finance or something else, some other domain, if you don't know something,
it's definitely useful to go talk to people that have experienced those situations and say,
hey, you know, in these types of scenarios, what have you noticed in the data or what data
would you use? What has the experience been in these situations? And then you start to see
where people are thinking and where their minds are going when you ask those questions. So I was
able to identify the different data sources that really explained some of the behavior you would
see in the market. And then, you know, talking is one thing, but then going and finding the data
is another thing. And you have to go talk to either data vendors or come up with the data
yourself. But you get probably better insights if you can find data that's maybe more proprietary
or something that you've developed yourself. I've been I like to go to a lot of finance conferences
and I've heard some really smart asset managers talk about quantitative asset managers talk about
how they like to hire Ph.D. level people to do basic regression and data cleaning.
And the question is, why would they want to spend their time on that? And really, though,
that's that's the hardest part is some of the more basic work. And if you can find somebody
with a Ph.D. mentality who can get their hands dirty and wants to get their hands really dirty
with data cleaning and linear regressions, then that's that's even better in a way.
And so I had to find data that would suit the question I'm trying to answer. And I got that
from talking to different people, trying to find the right data sources and then
putting everything together in aggregation of some way and some sort of dashboard of sorts.
And, you know, one thing at the end of the day, though, is it's you can send out just a spreadsheet
of numbers or a PDF of numbers or a shiny with just a grid on it. But really, what's impactful
is when you can tell the story with the data and to kind of not really tell people how to think,
but really what to focus on and they can draw their own conclusions. And that's also a big
challenge because you I mean, some people will read data and they'll draw their own conclusions
or it's really obvious just to regurgitate the numbers on the page. But if you can find
how different data points tell a bigger, better story, that's when some people start to listen
to you even more. And you realize they realize that you have more insights to say than what's
just shown on the paper and you can really connect the dots. And so doing some sort of
write up analysis of what you're seeing really leads to a lot of adoption of projects there,
too, from a quantitative framework and quantifying things that aren't normally quantified in a way
there, too. So hopefully that answers your question on that topic. Yeah, it does. Thanks.
It's really neat to think about many, many of those inputs into something like a model being
they're research projects and you're finding data, you're defining, you're coding. Yeah,
it's neat to hear. Thanks. Appreciate it. Yeah, no problem. I want to make sure I cover some of the
Slido questions. And somebody had asked, can you give advice on how to work across
teams that have poor working relationships? Yeah, that's a good one. That's an unavoidable
situation there, too. So it definitely depends on the different types of different types of
teams and the different types of people on those teams. And, you know, in the different domains,
you can have different types of personalities. And, you know, it really goes to how you can kind
of navigate that domain is pretty challenging. So, you know, one thing that I've noticed over the
years is I like to be just as passionate about my work as maybe other people would do their job.
So if you can try to be more partner-like with them and really show them, try to put
yourselves in their shoes is another way, I guess, of thinking about it. So if you think about, okay,
if I was some person who just got this email request from this person, this other team,
you know, what does it mean? Why should I care about it? And they might have a pretty negative
response to you off the bat. But if you can kind of put yourselves into their shoes, maybe you
could reframe that email or that ask in a way to really get a better outcome. And that's something
that is challenging to do. So think about it from the other person's perspective. But that's something
that I find works pretty well too. So it's unavoidable for conflicts, but really to understand
where it is that they're coming from. And you can kind of draw parallels in a way to,
you know, I don't want to open up a whole can of worms here, but, you know, open source development,
you know, you can get, I think of it like anybody today or tomorrow can go open up an issue request
on my GitHub and write whatever they want on it. And maybe it makes me feel great, or maybe it
doesn't. You know, I really shouldn't try to take it personally. Anyone can do what they want. But
trying to then take a step back and to really think about it from their
perspective and maybe reframing the question in a way that's better and maybe leads to a
better outcome would be a better scenario for everyone. And I've said this a few times, but
maybe even reframing into a way of they're asking a question and you could be getting a better
outcome if they've asked a slightly different question. And that leads to a better outcome
for everyone. And then maybe even you are motivated to tackle the problem, even though it came off
very negative at the beginning there too. So I like to think of it, I guess, from a different
person's perspective. And they can ask anything at any time. And you want to keep an open mind
and maybe just take a deep breath, take a step back and to think about how can you solve the
problem more generally than maybe what they're asking in a very narrow sense at the same time too.
Thank you. I think that we had a good question from Neil, but it's got asterisks. So I will
ask it. And it was, what do you think is the next big thing in relation to coding? So the next kind
of innovation in coding when it comes to risk management, or is there anything that you're
excited about? Yeah, I'll take that. I was expecting a question around LLMs and maybe
I'll take that question to the secret question around LLMs in a way. I use, I personally
pay for Copilot. And I find it's very useful for my coding to get things done quicker,
both in a number of ways. One is I might do something one-off very sloppily. And when I have
time, I'll go back and want to do a faster, better job, more efficient job. And it can help me solve
that problem, maybe reformat my code, my function entirely. That's been pretty useful from
that perspective. But of course, I have to double, triple check everything that comes out of it.
And then more recently, what I've been doing is almost, it's a little cumbersome in a way,
tedious, but almost going function by function in my package and essentially doing like a code
review of sorts. And to really make sure that I'm doing things efficiently, I could have done
something differently. And if the suggestion is A, and I'm going to review it, I'll take it serious
for a little bit. But if it makes sense or doesn't make sense, I'll just move on from there. So maybe
I wouldn't take everything so seriously from the output perspective, but it's definitely
interesting to see some of the suggestions sometime and to make you question what you've done.
And so it's from a coding perspective, I find it useful for one realm of a code review
that I can easily just do myself there too. I do think it's one interview question.
So when I do some interviews and ask people questions, I am always refreshed when some
people say, I don't know. That also means people are being honest and they want you to trust them.
And you appreciate that from a risk perspective. I have not come across the case yet where chat
GPT says, I don't know, especially when asking coding questions. It's a very confident system
at the moment. It would be a little more trustworthy if it could say, I don't know,
sometimes that would be pretty useful. So I would take everything from it with a grain of salt,
but I found it useful from a coding review perspective. And I've also enjoyed going
through the API from OpenAI as well as some of the others, just to see the workflow there.
And it helps you understand the process. And it's interesting to see the different steps
from end to end there too. So in terms of similarity and distances,
just that kind of exercise is pretty interesting just to think about how certain events are
relevant or not. And I definitely think there's maybe some adoption in the risk management space
there in terms of thinking about different regimes or different,
that's a similar environments that you're in. So is today's environments, you can quantitatively
do some of that today using big macro data, but can you use something more sophisticated
like a LLM type model or some other model to figure out the regime you're in and to think
about the different types of outcomes and scenarios and to just create a better toolbox
from a quantitative perspective. I want to make sure we take a few minutes to touch on the
community side of things. And I know you've been involved in the R and finance community for some
time, and that's where you mentioned you first heard about RStudio, I think. Could you share
a little bit about how you think your involvement in community has impacted your career?
Yeah, definitely. I think it's interesting. I went to RFinance physically for the first time in 2015,
and I would always read the presentations online for the years before then. And I was always so
impressed with the quality and the content. And I was very lucky and enjoyed going there
in person. And that motivated me to submit a talk for the next year. And it was really,
I got a lot of value out of going there physically and meeting the people behind the packages that I'd
use on a day-to-day basis. It's really interesting and it's useful to meet them and to hear their
thinking, especially things that are not posted online, and you get to learn about what they're
thinking or what they're doing. Maybe they just don't have time to do what they want yet. So,
just, I learned a lot just from going to conferences and then having some confidence to
present the following year to get some feedback from everyone out of it was very useful. So,
you know, I definitely got some feedback after a couple of my presentations about different
approaches to what I'm doing to make it even faster. So, you know, I was able to benefit
from that feedback and make the package even faster over the years. I'm not going to say it
was easy, quick thing to do, but it got done eventually. And it had a lot of impact. So,
I appreciate that advice. It just, you know, I have limited time nights and weekends to
contribute to that work. So, it's one of those passion projects where you know what you want to
do. It's just finding the time sometimes to do it can be quite challenging. So, the feedback was
quite impactful and, you know, Hadley at one point opened up a couple issues on my GitHub to request
some functions a long time ago. So, just getting that was quite exciting to see and to, you know,
work on for a little bit. And then also more recently, you know, some of the data table folks,
seems like that package has gotten re-energized significantly over the last year or so
with some more funding. So, they're doing a lot of work in that space and they're presenting
at a lot of conferences. And it's a very optimal optimized package to do a lot of things.
So, I'm a big user of that. And I've been lucky to, they do have a rolling function now,
froll. And so, I do talk to the developer on the data table team who's working on that. And we
share, you know, lessons learned about different approaches and learn from each other that way. So,
it's been exciting to talk to somebody who, he doesn't go to the R and finance conferences. So,
I don't know if I'll meet him in person, but it's been nice to see and to read and talk to him
over the years about what he's thinking. And I'm always impressed with that package.
You know, mine is pretty fast and theirs is going to be a little bit faster. So, they're a very
amazing bunch of folks who are working on that package. So, I've definitely learned a lot,
even though, you know, maybe they might be a little bit faster. I still learned a lot
from them. And I think that's something that is important for everyone to do and
just to keep learning. And, you know, I started with R back in 2009 and then switched to Python.
And now, who knows what's next and with all the LLMs and everything there too.
So, kind of an unanswered question at the moment. So, excited to see what's next there too. So,
we'll see. But definitely, continuous learning is something that I enjoy doing and keeps you
engaged on what's coming up next. So, it's something I recommend for everyone. And going
to conferences, presenting, even posting what is useful for you would be interesting to see.
Something, maybe not even something that's relevant for your professional life,
but even personal life would be interesting to see. Like, something that's actually useful
for you is something that would be useful for others to hear and share about and to learn from
as well. Absolutely. I know when we were talking, you mentioned wanting to get the finance community
together more regularly and maybe putting a call out to people who are on the Hangout.
Yeah, yeah. But I was just curious, what were you thinking of?
Yeah, no, definitely. I think if anyone wants to catch up or talk afterwards about ideas,
about finance, and I'm working... One of the reasons why I took on a new role last year was
I wanted to think about different types of asset classes with even less data than I'm used to. So,
each deal is very bespoke. So, I wanted to take on a challenge where data might be more challenging
to find. And in the finance world, you can get a lot of data for other types of asset classes,
but for some, it's really hard to get. So, if anybody wants to talk, bounce ideas about how
and their experiences with data in that kind of space, I'm very interested to learn from other
people. So, definitely something that I'd like to follow up with anybody on afterwards is just
what people's experiences have been in our Python data science in the finance world. And
you can get specific enough on the more esoteric type of asset classes that would benefit me,
that would be very useful to learn about. And if people use the role package, always interested in
their applications and use cases there as well, and happy to hear feedback there as well. So,
anyone that's interested or wants in the finance world would definitely be useful to hear from you.
Great. Thank you. I know we're down to the last minute. This is maybe a hard question
to fit into a minute. So, I'll just ask it real quick. But Ibrahim asked,
how would someone with less experience stand out in this time of a crazy job market?
If a large project is the way, what are some ideas for such?
Well, that's a great question. I remember getting stacks of resumes and going through them. And
after a while, a lot of them look very similar. So, it is very, very hard, but rest assured,
some real people are actually looking at them. But that being said, step one is really just to
have the qualifications from a quantitative perspective. So, something quantitative is
always useful. That's kind of like a starting point. And then I personally like to see some
sort of passion or motivation for the role. And then you have to think about what is something
that would make you stand out? And it goes to one maybe easier thing to think about is,
what is something that's typically actually challenging for a quantitative person to think
about? And really, one thing that is maybe more of the soft qualitative skills. So, you can think
about what's something that they've done in that space, whether they're really following the markets
and can they really explain what's going on in the markets and talk about the markets.
That can be challenging for some people just to keep up with the news and to explain it in a way
that's, you know, it's got an interesting story to it and can tell a perspective that you might have.
Or doing something like presentations or Toastmaster or something along those lines
would also stand out in a way that would separate you from the quantitative universe of resumes in
a way. Because everyone's going to look the same from a quant perspective. You want something that's
maybe not so quantitative to really stand out there too.
Thank you so much, Jason, for joining us today and sharing your experience. I know we're a minute
over here, but I really, really enjoyed the conversation today and can't wait to go back and
look through the chat as well. And Libby and I will try and gather some of those resources shared
there. And we'll start getting a little more creative about the way we're going to share
these as follow-ups with the recording too. Great, yeah, thank you for having me.
Thanks, everybody. And Jason, I know we'll see you back here as an attendee as well.
I shared your LinkedIn in the chat if people want to connect, but I also just started a thread
if I could help connect people on the finance topic as well.
Okay, great, thank you. Okay, have a great rest of the day, everybody. Thanks so much.
Bye-bye.